I used to think the whole purpose of
life was pursuing happiness everyone
said the path to happiness was success
so I searched for that ideal job that
perfect boyfriend that beautiful
apartment but instead of ever feeling
fulfilled I felt anxious and adrift and
I wasn't alone my friends they struggled
with this too eventually I decided to go
to graduate school for positive
psychology to learn what truly makes
people happy but what I discovered there
changed my life the data showed that
chasing happiness can make people
unhappy and what really struck me was
this the suicide rate has been rising
around the world and it recently reached
a 30-year high in America even though
life is getting objectively better by
nearly every conceivable standard more
people feel hopeless depressed and alone
there's an emptiness gnawing away at
people and you don't have to be
clinically depressed to feel it sooner
or later I think we all wonder is this
all there is and according to the
research what predicts this despair is
not a lack of happiness it's a lack of
something else a lack of having meaning
in life but that raised some questions
for me is there more to life than being
happy and what's the difference between
being happy and having meaning in life
many psychologists define happiness as a
state of comfort and ease feeling good
in the moment
meaning though is deeper the renowned
psychologist Martin Seligman says
meaning comes from belonging to and
serving something beyond yourself
and from developing the best within you
our culture is obsessed with happiness
but I came to see that seeking meaning
is the more fulfilling path and the
study showed that people who have
meaning in life they're more resilient
they do better in school and at work and
they even live longer so this all made
me wonder how can we each live more
meaningfully to find out I spent five
years interviewing hundreds of people
and reading through thousands of pages
of psychology neuroscience and
philosophy bringing it all together I
found that there are what I call four
pillars of a meaningful life and we can
each create lives of meaning by building
some or all of these pillars in our
lives the first pillar is belonging
belonging comes from being in
relationships where you're valued for
who you are intrinsically and where you
value others as well but some groups and
relationships deliver a cheap form of
belonging you're valued for what you
believe for who you hate not for who you
are
true belonging Springs from love it
lives in moments among individuals and
it's a choice you can choose to
cultivate belonging with others here's
an example
each morning my friend Jonathan buys a
newspaper from the same street vendor in
New York they don't just conduct a
transaction though they take a moment to
slow down talk and treat each other like
humans but one time Jonathan didn't have
the right change and the vendor said
don't worry about it but Jonathan
insisted on paying so he went to the
store and bought something he didn't
need to make change but when he gave the
money to the vendor the vendor drew back
he was heard he was trying to do
something kind but Jonathan had rejected
him I think we all reject people in
small ways like this without realizing
it I do I'll walk by someone I know and
barely acknowledge them I'll check my
when someone's talking to me these acts
devalue others they make them feel
invisible and unworthy but when you lead
with love you create a bond that lifts
each of you up for many people belonging
is the most essential source of meaning
those bonds to family and friends for
others the key to meaning is the second
pillar purpose now finding your purpose
is not the same thing as finding that
job that makes you happy
purpose is less about what you want then
about what you give a hospital custodian
told me her purpose is healing sick
people many parents tell me my purpose
is raising my children the key to
purpose is using your strengths to serve
others of course for many of us that
happens through work that's how we
contribute and feel needed but that also
means that issues like disengagement at
work unemployment low labor force
participation these aren't just economic
problems they're existential ones too
without something worthwhile to do
people flounder of course you don't have
to find purpose at work but purpose
gives you something to live for some why
that drives you forward the third pillar
of meaning is also about stepping beyond
yourself but in a completely different
way
transcendence transcendent States are
those rare moments when you're lifted
above the hustle and bustle of daily
life your sense of self fades away and
you feel connected to a higher reality
for one person I talked to transcendence
came from seeing arts for another person
it was at church for me I'm a writer and
it happens through writing sometimes
they get so in the zone
that I lose all sense of time and place
and these transcendent experiences can
change you
one study had students look up at 200
feet tall eucalyptus trees for one
minute but afterwards they felt less
self centered and they even behaved more
generously when given the chance to help
someone belonging purpose
transcendence now the fourth pillar of
meaning
I found tends to surprise people the
fourth pillar is storytelling the story
you tell yourself about yourself
creating a narrative from the events of
your life brings clarity it helps you
understand how you became you but we
don't always realize that were the
authors of our stories and can change
the way we're telling them your life
isn't just a list of events you can edit
interpret and retell your story even as
you're constrained by the facts I met a
young man named Amica who had been
paralyzed playing football after his
injury
Amica told himself my life was great
playing football but now look at me
people who tell stories like this my
life was good now it's bad they tend to
be more anxious and depressed and that
was Amica for a while but was time he
started to weave a different story his
new story was before my injury my life
was purposeless I partied a lot and was
a pretty selfish guy but my injury made
me realize I could be a better man that
edit to a story changed em'ly cos life
after telling the new story to himself
Amica started mentoring kids and he
discovered what his purpose was serving
others the psychologist Dan McAdams
calls this a redemptive story where the
bad is redeemed by the good people
leading meaningful lives he's found they
tend to tell stories about their lives
defined by Redemption growth and love
but what makes people change their
stories some people get help from a
therapist but you can do it on your own
too just by reflecting on your life
thoughtfully how you're defining
experience is shaped you what you lost
what you gained that's what Amica did
you won't change your story overnight it
could take years and be painful after
all we've all suffered and we all
struggle but embracing those painful
memories can lead to new insights and
wisdom
to finding that good that sustains you
belonging purpose transcendence
storytelling those are the four pillars
of meaning when I was younger I was
lucky enough to be surrounded by all of
the pillars my parents ran a Sufi
meeting house from our home in Montreal
Sufism is a spiritual practice
associated with the whirling dervishes
and the poet Rumi twice a week Sufis
would come to our home to meditate drink
Persian tea and share stories their
practice also involved serving all of
creation through small acts of love
which meant being kind even when people
wronged you but it gave them a purpose
to rein in the ego eventually I left
home for college and without the daily
grounding of Sufism in my life I felt
unmoored and I started searching for
those things that make life worth living
that's what set me on this journey
looking back I now realize that the Sufi
house had a real culture of meaning the
pillars were part of the architecture
and the presence of the pillars helped
us all live more deeply of course the
same principle applies in other strong
communities as well good ones and bad
ones
gangs cults these are cultures of
meaning that used the pillars and give
people something to live and die for but
that's exactly why we as a society must
offer better alternatives we need to
build these pillars within our families
and our institutions to help people
become their best selves but living a
meaningful life takes work it's an
ongoing process as each day goes by
we're constantly creating our lives
adding to our story and sometimes we can
get off track whenever that happens to
me I remember a powerful experience I
had with my father several months after
I graduated from college my dad had a
massive heart attack that should have
killed him
he survived and when I asked him what
was going through his mind as he faced
death he said all he could think about
was needing to live so he could be there
for my brother and me and this gave him
the will to fight for life when he went
under anesthesia for emergency surgery
instead of counting backwards from ten
he repeated our names like a mantra he
wanted our names to be the last words he
spoke on earth if he died my dad is a
carpenter and a Sufi it's a humble life
but a good life lying there facing death
he had a reason to live love his sense
of belonging within his family his
purpose as a dad his transcendent
meditation repeating our names Dec says
are the reasons why he survived that's
the story he tells himself that's the
power of meaning happiness comes and
goes but when life is really good and
when things are really bad having
meaning gives you something to hold on
to thank you
[Applause]